What's wrong with these freaks?
[PUNK B]
Hey, quit starin'!
What the hell's goin' on?
[OOISHI]
Now, now, folks,
I'm sure there's no need
for all the commotion.
Oh, Detective!
These men are extortionists.
Hey, get your hands off me!
[OOISHI] All right, boys,
we get it, settle down.
Hey there, kiddo.
They didn't hurt you, did they?
No. I'm all right.
[OOISHI chuckles] Well, it
certainly could have gone worse.
You made that call right
in the nick of time, folks.
Thanks.
Thank you for all your hard
work, Detective Ooishi.
As a detective, I'm sure
you've got a lot on your plate.
Think nothing of it.
Your call happened
to come in just as we were
on our way back
to the station anyway.
We barely even had
to take a detour.
[MION] Glad to have
you looking after us!
[KEIICHI]
That could've been bad.
Thanks a lot
for the assist, Shion.
Hey, now. It's no big deal.
I'll figure out a way
to pay you back for it.
Okay. I suppose next time
I'm in a tight spot,
you can come help me out, right?
Uh. Yeah. Definitely.
It's a promise.
[MION laughs]
I'm holding you to it!
Now I just need
to find a tight spot to be in.
You're feeling better!
Now I know you're the real Kei.
Not some gloomy imposter!
Hey, cut that out already!
Shouldn't you be
working right now
instead of
squishing my face?
My manager was very appreciative
when I told him you'd saved me
from those filthy gutter punks.
So much so that
he told me to treat you!
[KEIICHI] What? So you told him
the opposite of what happened.
And that doesn't bother you?
[MION]
Not in the least.
After all, if I were you,
I'd've been scared
when everybody closed in.
All those people were from
Hinamizawa, weren't they?
Yes, they were.
A threat to one
is a threat to us all.
Everyone looks out
for each other in the village.
Sounds like a
close‐knit community.
[MION] And that's
how it's been for decades.
Whenever something threatens
the future of Hinamizawa,
the people of the village
come together and fight back.
What do you mean?
[MION]
For instance,
have you heard about the
Hinamizawa Dam Project?
Yeah. A little bit.
It got cancelled, right?
We made that happen.
We pushed back and won.
In order to construct the dam,
they would've had
to flood Hinamizawa
and the surrounding villages.
So we ramped up our protests,
and pretty soon the riot police
started getting rough with us.
[KEIICHI] Wait, the police just
started attacking civilians?
[MION]
They did, with boots and batons!
I took a few hits
from them myself.
We treated that
as a declaration of war.
We went to court seeking
an injunction,
and protested at the city
and prefectural assemblies.
Anything we could do
to disrupt their plans.
Our public support kept growing
until they were forced
to put construction
on hold indefinitely.
We won in the end because we
were all able to come together.
The villagers understand the
value of solidarity,
and that's the reason
we're still here today.
That's a pretty
impressive story.
Uniting behind a cause,
protecting one another
from the powers that be.
It was quite a
difficult time for us all,
but after fighting our way
through the hardship,
I think we're
better off for it now.
Sorry. We need you
over here Sonozaki.
Can you come take the register?
Ah! Okay, coming!
I'm sorry.
It seems that's all
the time I can spare.
[KEIICHI]
Hey, Mion!
Thanks again
for everything today.
I'll make it up to you somehow.
It's nice to hear that,
and I intend to hold you to it.
See you later!
[AIKO] Keiichi! Sonozaki's
on the phone for you!
[KEIICHI]
Got it!
Hey. If you're calling me in for
club stuff, do it without me.
[SHION]
Um, pardon me. I'm not...
I'm sorry. I thought
it was Mion calling,
but this is Shion, isn't it?
[SHION]
Yes, it is.
Um. Sorry to bother you,
but do you like desserts?
Yeah, it's the
best part of the meal!
That's good.
You see, Angel Mort is trying
out a new dessert menu,
and we're looking
for taste testers.
Would you be willing
to help us out with that?
Uh, yeah, of course, but can I?
[SHION]
You certainly can!
We'll be waiting
for you tomorrow,
so please come to
the restaurant after school.
Have a good night, Kei.
You too. See you then.
[phone click]
[KEIICHI]
Man.
Shion's really been going
out of her way for me, huh?
Well, hi there!
Welcome to Angel Mort, sir!
Heya, Shion.
Let's get this thing going!
Uh... One thing: After my shift,
I was hoping I could
borrow you for a while.
Uh, sure, I don't
have anywhere to be.
That should be fine.
Lovely. Just wait
for me here, please.
Thank you!
[KEIICHI] Ohh!
These portions are huge!
And it's all amazing!
Ready to be swept up in
a sweet cyclone of flavor
with our Tropical
Cinnamon Love Affair?
Oh! I have never
been more ready!
[breaking glass]
I demand you correct
this right nyaow!
[SHION] I'm terribly sorry for
getting it on your clothes, sir!
We'll make it up to you!
Is she okay?
It looks like she tripped.
If mew don't get this little
spill wiped up quickly,
it will surely become a
rather embarrassing stain!
Huh?!
Not quite. He made
her fall on purpose.
Wait, it's his fault?
[WAITRESS A]
There's not much we can do.
We have to keep
our customers happy.
[CREEP B] Now wipe quickly,
milass, before it sets!
You think you're
real clever, huh?
Shut your mouth and get
your perv ass outta here!
[SHION]
Kei.
I think you're confused, sir.
She needs a lesson
in customer service.
[KEIICHI] I'm gonna teach you
a lesson, you creepy bastard!
[SHION]
Kei!
This is... Where am I?
Thank goodness.
You finally woke up.
Uh... I guess.
Nerdzilla knocked
me clean out, huh?
I hope you're all right.
It's my fault this happened.
I'm so sorry you were hurt.
Don't say that.
I wish I could've helped more.
I couldn't even win
the fight I started.
[SHION]
Mm‐mm.
You saw me in trouble and
came to help, and that's enough.
[SHION]
Thank you for waiting.
The sun will be
down before long.
We should hurry!
[KEIICHI]
Whoa, wait!
[SHION]
Let me reintroduce myself.
My name is Shion Sonozaki.
I'm the younger twin,
but Mion can act rather
coarse and overbearing,
whereas I try to be
more mature and refined.
[KEIICHI]
So she's talked about me?
What kind of things
has she told you?
[SHION]
She's talked about the club.
You getting one over on her,
her getting you right back.
It seems you've
grown quite close.
Look at these.
They're beautiful, aren't they?
[KEIICHI]
Yeah. They really are.
Hey now, there's no need
to act so melodramatic!
Surely you couldn't
be so bashful
that you're too nervous to link
arms with a girl, could you?
What?! No, I'm not nervous!
Don't be ridiculous!
If you really need an arm
to hold onto that badly,
then take one.
I'm fine.
Well, you've
certainly never failed
to entertain me so far, Kei.
Honestly, some of the
softer aspects of Mion
don't sit very well with me.
I'm guessing that means the two
of you don't really get along?
Oh, we get along
just fine in general.
But it's these
few particular things
that tend to rub me
the wrong way.
‐‐[SHION gasps]
‐‐[KEIICHI]Huh?
[SHION]
Look at these!
They're so cute!
[KEIICHI]
This place.
[SHION]
Hey, Kei. If I asked you,
would you buy me a doll?
Yeah, why not?
After all, we're already here,
and I owe you one
for helping me.
You want that one?
You don't have to.
Her dress is utterly adorable,
but she does cost quite a bit.
[KEIICHI]
I'm not worried about the price.
It's what you asked for.
Excuse me!
I was hoping I could buy
that doll in the window
with the pink dress.
[MION]
Yes, sir! Let me get‐‐
Mion?
Wait, Kei? And that's...
What the hell
are you doing here?
[SHION] As I've been
telling you since we met,
my name is Shion.
I'm Mion Sonozaki's sister.
You've been calling me that.
It's strange you're acting
so surprised to hear it again.
But I, uh...
Stop ignoring me, Shion!
Hurry up and tell me
why you're here already!
Oh, no reason!
I was simply taking
the opportunity
to get acquainted with
this boy Kei, and here we are.
Hold on.
Mion, weren't you the one
who called me yesterday?
Why would I have
called you yesterday?
What are you talking about?
You may recall I was
the one who showed up
at your door with
food the other night too!
Hey!
I did that one!
But that hardly sounds
like you, does it now, Mion?
Well... I...
Nevermind, nevermind, nevermind,
nevermind, nevermind...
[SHION]
So you see, Kei?
I really am Shion Sonozaki.
It's been me the whole time!
I hope everything
makes sense now.
So then, shopkeep.
Can we get that doll
bagged up now, please?
It's my first big present
from my sweetheart,
and I'm ready to take it home!
Ah! That's nice!
Huh?
Hey, Rika! Keep it up!
Nii! Let's both give it
our best this year, okay?
It's wonderful to see Rika
becoming so confident
about her role in
the festival this year.
Puttin' your back into it, Kei?
Yeah! Let's do our best!
Man, I'm tired.
[SHION]
Good job, Kei.
Ah, thanks, Mion.
Whoa, hold on!
It's me, I'm the
thoughtful sister, Shion.
Why you!
[laughs]
I didn't have anything to do
with you getting us mixed up.
No fair making a good point.
[MION screams]
Hey, Shion!
What are you doing following
Kei around like that again?
[SHION] Showing consideration
for the people around me.
Quite a concept, I know.
And on that note, why exactly
are you holding two barley teas?
Oh, well. I'm, uh... See...
Yeah! One barley tea's
not enough for me!
What a talented girl.
You drained those quite quickly!
You suck, Shion.
You sucked yesterday,
and you suck even more now!
[laughs]
[shutter click]
Good evening.
Oh hey, old man Tomitake
and Ms. Takano showed up too!
[TAKANO]
Is that you, Shion?
What a pleasant surprise
to run into you out here!
Good to see you again, ma'am.
[TOMITAKE] And you must be
the new kid in town.
Keiichi Maebara, right?
Uh, yeah. Sorry,
but have I met you before?
I'm glad you recognize my face.
We haven't talked,
but we've passed each
other on the road before.
I'm Tomitake,
a freelance photographer
working out of Tokyo.
Now, I don't suppose
you recognize me?
Uh, yeah, sorry. I got nothing.
She's Miyo Takano.
She's been a nurse over
at the clinic for a while now.
Ask for me next time
you get a checkup.
I'll make sure all my biggest
needles are ready for you.
Evening, ladies and gentlemen.
Detective Ooishi! How are you?
Scoping things out
for security tomorrow?
[OOISHI laughs]
Guess I'm not hiding it well.
Ah, and it seems
Mister Tomitake is here.
It's been a while, hasn't it?
Well, I'm honored that you
would remember my name, sir.
Good to see you!
Seems like you've gotten pretty
attached to Hinamizawa, huh?
Anyway. You folks
have a good year.
Oh, Detective?
Everyone's counting
on you and your team.
We're all hoping we can get
through the Watanagashi Festival
without incident this year.
[OOISHI]
Tall order, but I'll try!
[laughs]
The curse of
Lord Oyashiro, right?
[MION]
Hey, Kei.
[KEIICHI]
Huh?
I'm hungry. Let's get some food.
They've got plenty
of free snacks
over at the volunteer tent.
Sure. Sounds good.
[MION]
Let's go!
So who's going to die this year,
and who is going to disappear?
Wha...?
Wait a sec, what'd you say?
[cicada cries]
Nothing interesting.
Let's go, Kei.
You really haven't
brought it up with him yet?
It seems like everyone else
knows what's going on,
so would someone
mind filling me in?
[MION] Well, I'm heading
on to the snack tent.
Fair warning, if you take too
long I'm eating your share too.
Uh... Got it, thanks.
Now then, do you believe in the
power of curses, Mister Maebara?
Huh?
You've heard about the
Hinamizawa Dam project, right?
Yeah.
[TOMITAKE] When the villagers
were holding their protests,
they used Oyashiro's shrine here
as their base of operations.
The idea was that working
under the protection
of their guardian deity,
they'd be blessed with victory.
It was only superstition,
of course.
That's how it started.
But then something happened.
[KEIICHI] By something,
you mean the curse?
[SHION] The construction manager
for the Hinamizawa Dam project
was brutally murdered.
He was attacked by
a mob armed with pickaxes.
They killed him and
dismembered the body
and disposed of it in pieces.
[TOMITAKE]
One of the attackers escaped.
He remains missing to this day,
along with the
victim's right arm.
[TAKANO]
The following year,
a couple who had been
in favor of the dam project
suffered a deadly fall
from a cliff.
The man's body was found,
but the wife never was.
[SHION] The year after that,
the shrine priest,
who had been on
the side of the protesters,
suddenly came down
with a mysterious illness
and passed away.
They found a suicide
note from his wife.
She disappeared,
as if to join him.
[TOMITAKE] And the next year,
which was last year,
the wife of the
younger brother of the man
who'd fallen off the cliff
was found out in the woods.
Apparently beaten to death.
But what's most
interesting about all this.
Is that each and
every one of these deaths
and disappearances
happened to take place
during the night of the
Watanagashi festival.
[gasps]
[TAKANO] Everyone involved with
the dam project is dying off,
one by one.
And the terrified people
of Hinamizawa attribute it
to the curse of Lord Oyashiro.
So what do you think, Keiichi?
I definitely don't
believe it was a curse
that did those things.
But I can see why people prefer
it to no explanation at all.
That's good.
I knew I could count on you to
look at things rationally, Kei.
So if it's not a curse, and it's
clearly not a coincidence.
Well, then,
I suppose we can only wait and
see what comes next, can't we?
Huh?
She has her own theory.
Ms. Takano says
there's some person or group
of people behind it all.
Nothing else makes sense.
There's no way these things
could've happened
unless somebody
orchestrated them, right?
[SHION] And we have proof
that Lord Oyashiro's curse
has something to do with the
people of Hinamizawa themselves.
[KEIICHI] Wha... What
do you mean by proof?
Every year someone gets killed
and someone else disappears.
[KEIICHI] Disappears?
Like they just vanish?
Hinamizawa shows up
in legends from ancient times.
They say the people
of the village
would offer human sacrifices
to quell the wrath
of Lord Oyashiro.
[KEIICHI]
Human sacrifices?
Yes.
They'd roll them up
in bamboo mats
and toss them into the swamp,
then leave them to
sink slowly to their deaths.
Awful, isn't it?
[laughs]
[KEIICHI]
What are you trying to say?
You think the people
who disappeared
were offered up as human
sacrifices to Oyashiro?
[SHION] Lord Oyashiro takes one
life in the name of the curse.
But each year,
there also has to be a second.
One given by the villagers.
[KEIICHI] But, Shion,
if that's true, then...
...somebody in Hinamizawa
is behind it all!
[SHION] This year's Watanagashi
festival is coming up tomorrow.
I certainly don't
want anyone to die,
or to disappear,
for that matter.
[KEIICHI]
So it's tomorrow?
[TAKANO] And who do you
suppose it will be, tomorrow?
Who will die and
who will disappear?
[RENA]
Ahh!
Everything looks so nice!
They knew the whole
village was coming,
so they had to get it right!
That's impressive.
Ah! Hey,
I found Rika and Satoko!
Over here!
Well now!
My lovely friends are here!
Evening, darlings!
Good evening.
Awoo! Rika!
Can I keep you please?
Mii!
Ready for your performance?
I'm a little nervous,
to be honest.
Don't be.
You'll blow 'em away!
And we're gonna be out
there cheering you on, okay?
So give it your all!
[ALL]
You got this!
Eheh!
Seems like I lost
everybody somehow.
Man, I can't even see her!
[SHION]
Hey, Kei!
Come along, please.
Okay.
Wait, what's going on?
Why are you taking me
away from the festival?
[SHION] Shh! It's fine,
just stay quiet and follow me.
Here we are.
Take a look out there.
What, is that it?
You dragged me out here
to look at a building?
Indeed, I did.
I thought you were trying
to take me someplace
we could actually see Rika!
You are very hung up on that.
I can't think of a
nicer way to say this,
but your taste in women
is looking suspect.
Wow. I think I'll head back.
[TAKANO]
Gracious, what's all this about?
Keiichi!
What a surprise running
into you all the way out here.
In the bushes
with a girl, at that.
[laughs]
[SHION] I had assumed that was
why you two were out here.
You were peeping on us?
Well, sorry to tell you,
but you won't be
getting the kind of show
you were hoping for, dear.
[SHION] Hmm... Then what
were you up to, exactly?
Oh, y'know,
just a little break‐in.
Don't tell, okay?
[KEIICHI]
Whaddya mean "don't tell"?
Were you trying
to steal something?
No. We just wanna get
a quick look at what's inside.
[TAKANO]
Mm‐hm...
This is a forbidden storehouse
for old ritual tools.
Only a few people outside
the Furude family
are allowed inside.
If anyone else were to enter,
they would be defiling
a sacred space.
[KEIICHI]
Okay.
So why are you guys
trying to break into it?
Because I'm far too curious
to let superstition keep me
from finding out what
they've hidden in here!
[TOMITAKE]
It's open.
[TAKANO]
Thank you! It's finally time.
So? You two are
accessories to the crime.
No reason not to take
a look now, is there?
Wha... Hey, wait a minute.
We're just standing here!
That sounds interesting!
Kei. Let's go.
But... I thought nobody
was supposed to go in there.
It's a sacred place, isn't it?
I don't know exactly what tools
are kept in that storehouse.
But I am a Sonozaki,
so I do have some idea.
And I think it's best if
you see them for yourself.
You want me
to see what's inside?
I dunno.
[SHION] If you don't
find anything in there
that interests you,
you're welcome to leave.
But I think you
will find something
to hold your attention.
Or does the curse frighten you?
[KEIICHI]
No way.
There's no such
thing as a curse.
[TOMITAKE] I'm gonna
stay here and keep a lookout.
You two go ahead
and take a look inside.
For a young guy like yourself,
I'm guessing there'll be
a lot of interesting stuff
to check out.
[KEIICHI]
Fine.
Just a quick peek,
but I'm going back if it's lame.
[SHION]
That's all I wanted!
So you've made your choice then.
Let's take a look.
[RIKA] Next time:
Watadamashi‐hen, Part 3.